The two types of
evaluation metrics are
intrinsic evaluation and
extrinsic evaluation.
Depending on the task you're
trying to optimize for,
you can choose one of them.
Let's dive in. Allow me
to introduce
intrinsic evaluation.
Intrinsic evaluation
methods assess
how well the word embeddings
inherently capture
the semantic or
syntactic relationships
between the words.
Semantics refers
to the meaning of
words whereas syntax
refers to the grammar.
You could do this by testing
the word embeddings
on analogies.
You could test semantic
analogies as in
finding the missing word
in France is to Paris,
as Italy is to blank.
You could also evaluate
the embeddings on
syntactic analogies,
such as plurals, tenses,
and comparatives.
As in, seen is to
saw as been is to?
One consideration you
should be aware of for
this approach is
that there could be
several possible
correct answers.
As in, wolf is to pack
as bee is to blank.
Where the collective noun
and the missing word could,
for instance, be
swarm or colony.
Here's an example from
the original Word2vec
research publication
with the word embeddings
created from a huge
training sets.
I should mention that the word
embeddings were created by
a continuous skip ground model
and not a continuous
bag-of-words model.
But evaluation
principle is the same.
Note that the analogies
are not perfect.
For example, the word embeddings
fail to completely capture
the relationship between
chemical elements
and their symbols.
The symbol for copper is CU.
The symbol for Zinc is ZN.
The symbol for gold is AU.
The symbol for uranium is U.
But the word2vec
embedding outputs
the word plutonium instead of U.
You could also perform
intrinsic evaluation by using
a clustering algorithm to group
similar word
embedding vectors and
determining of the clusters
capture related towards.
This could be automated using
a human-made reference
such as a thesaurus.
Here's a visualization
of clusters taken from
a paper on the evaluation
of word embeddings.
If you look at the word cluster,
you can see that the
words fights and
agitates are close
to each other.
Similarly, the word hair care
and hairdressing are also
close to each other.
Interesting. In this
week's assignment,
you'll visualize the
word embedding vectors,
which qualifies as
a basic intrinsic
evaluation of the vectors
that rely on human judgment
to assess the quality
of the embeddings.
But first, I'll show you one
more approach to evaluate
the quality of word embeddings,
extrinsic evaluation.
Here is a recap of
what you have learned.
Intrinsic evaluation allows you
to test relationships between
words you can use for
clustering, analogies
and visualization.
In the next video,
you will learn about
something slightly different,
known as extrinsic evaluation.